# GridPix
#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/KOh3htOBvkc 
#### Description:

I chose to make a website called GridPix wherein users can choose a grid size and make a pixel art masterpiece from that. I got inspired to make this website as i was just sitting down one day trying to brain storm ideas for my CS50 final project and saw a bunch of cylindrical beads that would need to be placeed in certain design patterns so that when the beads have been ironed and compressed, a beautiful design is produced. Initially, i decidd to make a dotted grid based on the physical object i had seen, and then users would be able to click on a certain part of the grid to make a round beaded design appear on the screen but after careful consideration, I decided that was going to be too complicated and so just stuck to a grid box method, which is actually a prety common design method for a lot of artists. For this project, i used html, css and javascript. I also used frameworks like flask and bootstrap.

The first page i made was the grid.html because i wanted to see if the main element of my file would actually work out or not. I made a i made an input box in which users could input the gridsize that they want and generate a grid of that particular size. I made a paint palette with a bunch of basic colours that could be used to make the artwork. Later on, i added more colour options and also added a save button that could lead to the gallery. After that, I wasn't satisfied with the way the gridsize input looked like in the screen, so i decided to dedicate a whole page jsut for the gridsize. I made sure the sizes people could choose were between 5 and 30 to ensure the grid fits well on the screen. I also added images of 3 example sizes on that page.

After that, i made app.py that uses flask to ensure each page can flow from one another. I created a route for every page and added some functionality for logging in and signing up. Once i did that, i proceeded to make the home page which is the root of the website. The homepage has big logo of GridPix that i created on my own using an app called procreate. I also added a welcome messege for new user to begin their journey with my site. When clicking the Get Started button, users will be lead to the login/signup page.

In the login/signup page, there is a tab that shifts between logging in or signing up, allowing users to easily choose whichever they need in order to begin or continue their process with my website. AFter creating thoe pages, i went on to making the gallery page. The difficult part was figuring out how to get the users work saved into the gallery. That's when i found out that there's something called pillow, which basically creates images. So instead of saving the actual work, an image that looks like the work is being created based on info stored about the users grid and painting such as the grid size and the colours on each individual pixel of the grid. I was contemplating on whether or not i should allow users to be able to edit their drawing and continue where they left off, but realised that would use a different technique from creating images. So at the end, i decided not to.

I also have users.db that stores information about users login or signup data, it ensures each drawing links to the specific user. The database also stores each users specific artwork. When teh user deletes their work, th eimage also getes deleted from the database. I made a navigation bar using bootstrap methods to link each page to another page depending on how i want the flow of the website to go form. Such as home to login and if the user logged in, it will go straight to the gallery page. The navigation bar on each page includes my GridPix logo on the left hand corner of the bar.

I've only used a separate css page for the grid.html, everything else has it in the style section of the html page. I wanted a fancy looking font and so, imported the NK123 font to use as a header in a lot of my pages. Overall this project was a fun but exhausting experience, it involved hours of debugging anf fixing things up stylistically to ensure smoooth user experience. I enjoyed this project as I love anything art related and this allowed me to enhance my creative skills. And the best thing about it is I know some people, especially kids such as my brother. He helped out by testing if the grid work work and made a lot of masterpieces already. The name of my youtube video is GridPix | CS50 Final Project 2024.

